Employee Referral Bonus Program
Classification: CONFIDENTIAL      

Cape Ann offers a referral bonus of 500 KM for each new employee hired by Cape Ann who was referred by a current employee. For experienced developers, (assessed on a case-by-case basis and a minimum of 3 years of experience) the Bonus will be 1,000 KM.
The referring employee will receive this bonus after the new, referred employee has completed six (6) full months of employment with Cape Ann. The bonus payment is made during the first pay period after the six-month anniversary of the new employee. A lump-sum payment will be added to your regular salary as a bonus.

All you have to do is:

1.     Direct candidates to:  https://capeannenterprises.com/careers/

and,

1.     then you as the referring employee should send an email to jobs@capeannenterprises.com to make sure you get credit as the person responsible for the referral.

Here is what Cape Ann Offers (or will soon be offering as we put the new management structures and policies in place).

●       competitive salaries

●       supportive, friendly work environment

●       interesting, state-of-the-art projects with industry-leading clients

●       Full Stack Development Company: learn marketable skills across all platforms such as Angular, Python, JavaScript, Drupal, node.js, and many more

●       opportunity to travel to the United States or within Europe

●       flexible work hours

●       predictable career advancement opportunities

●       ongoing training and development in new technologies

 

Thank you! Adding good people to our team will help us all share the load.


Date of Change

Responsible

Summary of Change

Jan  2019

CA InfoSec Team

Initial document

July 2023

InfoSec team

Minor grammar corrections.

Added document identification Taxonomy/ Abbreviations

December 2024

CA InfoSec Team

Modified the section Employee Referral Bonus Program. Approved by Nora Cifric and HR.

