Password Construction Guidelines

File:PCG_POL_5.00_2023_6_30

Classification: CONFIDENTIAL

Note: If you are reading a printed copy of this document, please make sure that there is not a newer version of this document online at Cape Ann Enterprises (Cape Ann) Learning and Development Platform at: (https://lms.capeannenterprises.com/)



1.     Overview
Passwords are a critical component of information security. Passwords serve to protect user accounts; however, a poorly constructed password may result in the compromise of individual systems, data, or network. This guideline provides best practices for creating secure passwords.

2.     Purpose
The purpose of this guideline is to provide best practices for the creation of strong passwords.

3.     Scope
This guideline applies to employees, contractors, consultants, temporary and other workers, including all personnel affiliated with third parties. This guideline applies to all passwords including but not limited to user-level accounts, system-level accounts, web accounts, e-mail accounts, screen saver protection, voicemail, and local router logins.

4.     Statement of Guidelines
Strong passwords are long, the more characters you have the stronger the password. All employees, contractors, consultants, temporary, and other workers at Cape Ann Enterprises and its subsidiaries “must” use the following guidelines when creating a new password:

○      Password must contain a minimum of eight characters

○      Password must include a lowercase letter

○      Password must include an uppercase letter

○      Password must include a number

○      Password must include a special character

○      Password may not contain username

In addition, we encourage the use of passphrases, passwords made up of multiple words.  Examples include “It’s time for vacation” or “block-curious-sunny-leaves”.  Passphrases are both easy to remember and type, yet meet the strength requirements.  Poor, or weak, passwords have the following characteristics:

○      Contain less than eight characters

○      Contain personal information such as birthdates, addresses, phone numbers, or names of family members, pets, friends, and fantasy characters.

○      Contain number patterns such as aaabbb, qwerty, zyxwvuts, or 123321.

○      Are some version of “Welcome123” “Password123” “Changeme123”

In addition, every work account should have a different, unique password. To enable users to maintain multiple passwords, we highly encourage the use of ‘password manager’ software that is authorized and provided by the organization.  Whenever possible, also enable the use of multi-factor authentication.

5.     Policy Compliance
5.1  Compliance Measurement

Cape Ann’s Information and Data Security Team (InfoSec) will verify compliance to this policy through various methods, including but not limited to, periodic walk-thrus, video monitoring, business tool reports, internal and external audits, and feedback to the policy owner.  Minimum Password Requirements shall be enforced via Jumplocoud settings.

5.2  Exceptions

Any exception to the policy must be approved by the InfoSec team in advance.

5.3  Non-Compliance

An employee found to have violated this policy may be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including termination of employment.

6       Related Standards, Policies and Processes
None.

7       Definitions and Terms
None.

8       Revision History
Date of Change

Responsible

Summary of Change

June 2014

CA InfoSec Team

Separated from the Password Policy and converted to a new format.

October 2017

CA InfoSec Team

Updated to reflect changes in NIST SP800-63-3

October, 2021

Adnan Mesalic
David Martz

Updated Sections 4 and 5

February 24, 2022

David Martz

Updated Section 4 to Reflect the Password construction requirements that are enforced by Jumplcoud.

June 2023

InfoSec team

Minor grammar corrections.

Added document identification Taxonomy/ Abbreviations



 