Remote Access Policy

File: RemAcc_POL_4.00_2023_6_30

Classification: CONFIDENTIAL

Note: If you are reading a printed copy of this document, please make sure that there is not a newer version of this document online at Cape Ann Enterprises (Cape Ann) Learning and Development Platform at: (https://lms.capeannenterprises.com/)

 
1.     Overview
Remote access to our corporate network is essential to maintain our Team’s productivity but in many cases this remote access originates from networks that may already be compromised or are at a significantly lower security posture than our corporate network.  While these remote networks are beyond the control of Cape Ann policy constraints, we must mitigate these external risks to the best of our ability.

2.     Purpose
The purpose of this policy is to define rules and requirements for connecting to Cape Ann's network from any host. These rules and requirements are designed to minimize the potential exposure to Cape Ann from damages which may result from unauthorized use of Cape Ann resources. Damages include the loss of sensitive or company confidential data, intellectual property, damage to public image, damage to critical Cape Ann internal systems, and fines or other financial liabilities incurred as a result of those losses.

3.     Scope
This policy applies to all Cape Ann employees, contractors, vendors and agents with a Cape Ann-owned or personally-owned computer or workstation used to connect to the Cape Ann network. This policy applies to remote access connections used to do work on behalf of Cape Ann, including reading or sending email and viewing intranet web resources.  This policy covers any and all technical implementations of remote access used to connect to Cape Ann networks.

4.     Policy
It is the responsibility of Cape Ann employees, contractors, vendors and agents with remote access privileges to Cape Ann's corporate network to ensure that their remote access connection is given the same consideration as the user's on-site connection to Cape Ann.

General access to the Internet for recreational use through the Cape Ann network is strictly limited to Cape Ann employees, contractors, vendors and agents (hereafter referred to as “Authorized Users”).  When accessing the Cape Ann network from a personal computer, Authorized Users are responsible for preventing access to any Cape Ann computer resources or data by non-Authorized Users.  Performance of illegal activities through the Cape Ann network by any user (Authorized or otherwise) is prohibited.  The Authorized User bears responsibility for and consequences of misuse of the Authorized User’s access.  For further information and definitions, see the Acceptable Use Policy.

Authorized Users will not use Cape Ann networks to access the Internet for outside business interests.

For additional information regarding Cape Ann's remote access connection options, including how to obtain a remote access login, free anti-virus software, troubleshooting, etc., ask your team leader.

4.1  Requirements

4.1.1      Secure remote access must be strictly controlled with encryption (i.e., Virtual Private Networks (VPNs)) and strong pass-phrases. For further information see the Acceptable Encryption Policy and the Password Policy.

4.1.2      Authorized Users shall protect their login and password, even from family members.

4.1.3      While using a Cape Ann-owned computer to remotely connect to Cape Ann's corporate network, Authorized Users shall ensure the remote host is not connected to any other network at the same time, with the exception of personal networks that are under their complete control or under the complete control of an Authorized User or Third Party.

4.1.4      Use of external resources to conduct Cape Ann business must be approved in advance by InfoSec and the appropriate business unit manager.

4.1.5      All hosts that are connected to Cape Ann's internal networks via remote access technologies must use the most up-to-date anti-virus software (https://www.avast.com/free-antivirus-download), this includes personal computers.

4.1.6      Personal equipment used to connect to Cape Ann's networks must meet the requirements of Cape Ann-owned equipment for remote access as stated in the Hardware and Software Configuration Standards for Remote Access to Cape Ann Networks.

5.     Policy Compliance
5.1  Compliance Measurement

Cape Ann’s Information and Data Security Team (InfoSec) will verify compliance with this policy through various methods, including but not limited to, periodic walk-thru's, video monitoring, business tool reports, internal and external audits, and inspection, and will provide feedback to the policy owner and appropriate business unit manager.

5.2  Exceptions

Any exception to the policy must be approved by Remote Access Services and the InfoSec Team in advance.

5.3  Non-Compliance

An employee found to have violated this policy may be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including termination of employment.

6       Related Standards, Policies, and Processes
Please review the following policies for details of protecting information when accessing the corporate network via remote access methods and acceptable use of Cape Ann’s network:

○      Acceptable Encryption Policy

○      Acceptable Use Policy

○      Password Policy

○      Third Party Agreement

○      Hardware and Software Configuration Standards for Remote Access to Cape Ann Networks

7       Revision History
Date of Change

Responsible

Summary of Change

June 2014

SANS Policy Team

Updated and converted to a new format.

 

 

 

April 2015

Christopher Jarko

Added an Overview; created a group term for company employees, contractors, etc. (“Authorized Users”); strengthened the policy by explicitly limiting use of company resources to Authorized Users only; combined Requirements when possible, or eliminated Requirements better suited for a Standard (and added a reference to that Standard); consolidated list of related references to end of Policy.

October, 2021

Adnan Mesalic
David Martz

Updated Link in 4.1

June 2023

InfoSec team

Minor grammar corrections.

Added document identification Taxonomy/ Abbreviations


