Sick Days and Sick Leave policy

File: SiDaSLv_POL_2.00_2023_7_7  

Classification: CONFIDENTIAL

Effective date: April 15, 2019

Note: If you are reading a printed copy of this document, please make sure that there is not a newer version of this document online at Cape Ann Enterprises (Cape Ann) Learning and Development Platform at: (https://lms.capeannenterprises.com/)

 

Sick Days

Paid sick days allow employees to take time off from work while they are ill without an obligation to provide medical documentation. Employees are entitled to three sick days per year and may use one sick day at the time.

If more than one day is needed and/or in case of exceeding the total number of sick days per year, employees must provide medical documentation.

 

Sick Leave

Paid temporary sick leave allows employees to take time off from work in order to address their health and safety needs without losing pay. In order to take sick leave, employees must provide medical documentation.

 

Notification of Absence

 

●      An employee must notify his or her supervisor before each absence due to illness, except in the case of an emergency.

●      For foreseeable or scheduled use of sick time, the employee must provide notice up to seven days in advance.

●      In the case of unforeseeable absences or where the employee learns of the need to use sick time less than seven days before its use, notice must be given by the employee as soon as possible.

●      For multi-day absences, the employee must inform his or her supervisor or manager of the expected duration of the leave, or if unknown, on a daily basis. For such multi-day absences, notice may be given by the employee's spouse, adult family member, or other responsible parties.

 

Revision History
 

Date of Change

Responsible

Summary of Change

May 2020

CA InfoSec Team

Updated Section

July 2023

InfoSec team

Minor grammar corrections.

Added document identification Taxonomy/ Abbreviations


 

 

 

 

