Workstation Security (For HIPAA) Policy
File: WrkSSec_POL_3.00_2023_7_7
Classification: CONFIDENTIAL



Note: If you are reading a printed copy of this document, please make sure that there is not a newer version of this document online at Cape Ann Enterprises (Cape Ann) Learning and Development Platform at: (https://lms.capeannenterprises.com/)                                                                                

1.     Overview
See Purpose.

2.     Purpose
The purpose of this policy is to provide guidance for workstation security for Cape Ann workstations in order to ensure the security of information on the workstation and information the workstation may have access to.  Additionally, the policy provides guidance to ensure the requirements of the HIPAA Security Rule “Workstation Security” Standard 164.310(c) are met.

3.     Scope
This policy applies to all Cape Ann employees, contractors, workforce members, vendors and agents with a Cape Ann-owned or personal-workstation connected to the Cape Ann network.

4.     Policy
Appropriate measures must be taken when using workstations to ensure the confidentiality, integrity and availability of sensitive information, including protected health information (PHI) and that access to sensitive information is restricted to authorized users.

4.1 Workforce members using workstations shall consider the sensitivity of the information, including protected health information (PHI) that may be accessed and minimize the possibility of unauthorized access.

4.2 Cape Ann will implement physical and technical safeguards for all workstations that access electronic protected health information to restrict access to authorized users.

4.3 Appropriate measures include:

○      Restricting physical access to workstations to only authorized personnel.

○      Securing workstations (screen lock or logout) prior to leaving unattended to prevent unauthorized access.

○      Enabling a password-protected screen saver with a <10 min. timeout period to ensure that workstations that were left unsecured will be protected.  The password must comply with Cape Ann Password Policy.

○      Complying with all applicable password policies and procedures. See Cape Ann Password Policy.

○      Ensuring workstations are used for authorized business purposes only.

○      Never installing unauthorized software on workstations.

○      Storing all sensitive information, including protected health information (PHI) on network servers

○      Keeping food and drink away from workstations in order to avoid accidental spills.

○      Hard Drive must have encryption turned on all workstations

○      Installing privacy screen filters or using other physical barriers to alleviate exposing data.

○      Ensuring workstations are left on but logged off in order to facilitate after-hours updates.

○      Exit running applications and close open documents

○      Ensuring that all workstations use a surge protector (not just a power strip) or a UPS (battery backup).

○      If wireless network access is used, ensure access is secure by following the Wireless Communication policy

5.     Policy Compliance
5.1  Compliance Measurement

Cape Ann’s Information and Data Security Team (InfoSec) will verify compliance to this policy through various methods, including but not limited to, periodic walk-thrus, video monitoring, business tool reports, internal and external audits, and feedback to the policy owner.

5.2  Exceptions

Any exception to the policy must be approved by the InfoSec team in advance.

5.3  Non-Compliance

An employee found to have violated this policy may be subject to disciplinary action, up to and including termination of employment.

6       Related Standards, Policies and Processes
○      Password Policy

○      Portable Workstation Encryption Policy

○      Wireless Communication policy

○      Workstation Configuration Standard

HIPPA 164.210

http://www.hipaasurvivalguide.com/hipaa-regulations/164-310.php

About HIPPA

http://abouthipaa.com/about-hipaa/hipaa-hitech-resources/hipaa-security-final-rule/164-308a1i-administrative-safeguards-standard-security-management-process-5-3-2-2/

7       Definitions and Terms
None.

8       Revision History

 
Date of Change

Responsible

Summary of Change

June 2014

SANS Policy Team

Updated and converted to a new format.

October 2021

Adnan Mesalic
David Martz

Updated Section 4.3

July 2023

InfoSec team

Minor grammar corrections.

Added document identification Taxonomy/ Abbreviations

 